In this video, I will show you how
to provide a list of items for
the user to choose from and how to
offer your app in multiple languages.
We will be using the example provided
by the Block02 application.
In this application, the user is
presented with a list of animals,
and when he clicks on one animal there
is a small pop-up message at the bottom,
which indicates the name of
the animal which was picked.
If I change the setting of this phone
so the language is French,
the name of the animals are translated,
and
if I click on one animal the text of
the pop-up message is translated as well.
Start a new Android Studio project.
Call your application Block02,
click Next, Next again,
pick an Empty Activity, Next, and Finish.
Let's start with the XML file for
the layout.
There is already a TextView,
except that it reads "Hello world" instead
of "Pick an animal", so let's change that.
I will edit the XML file directly,
I delete "Hello world",
and I replace it by "Pick an animal".
And here you notice this little,
yellow light bulb here, and
if I click on it I can choose
to "Extract string resource".
What does it mean?
Let's do that.
In fact, instead of hard-coding
my string here,
I will define it in a separate
file called strings.xml.
And here I will only give
a pointer to this file.
So my resource name,
that will be the text prompt.
Let's say that it's TextView_prompt.
And then I click OK.
And see that here my text is replaced by,
instead, a reference.
If you want to see what is
the text of the TextView,
then you need to look at
@string in the strings.xml file
and look for the string which
is labelled TextView_prompt.
So, let's go to this strings.xml file.
You will find it here in the 'resource'
folder, in the 'values' subfolder.
Here is our strings.xml file.
So, then I click to open it.
And here you can see that we already
have in fact two strings that
are defined already.
One that defines the name of the
application, and the second one, the one
we've defined, called TextView_prompt,
and which value is "Pick an animal".
And you see here that I can
edit a translation for
a different language using
the translation editor.
So let's open that up.
You click here, to the right,
on the 'Open Editor'.
Now I can add a language here
by clicking on the little
Earth symbol, and I'll add French locale.
Okay.
And here all the keys values which were
not translated into this second
language appear in red here, so
I need to translate this one.
I double-click here, and
I enter the French translation for
"Pick an animal", which is
"Choisissez
un animal".
Okay, if I move back to
the activity_main.xml and
I look at the result in the design view,
here in English...
(Maybe I should put that a little larger.)
In English, it reads "Pick an animal",
and if I click here on
the little earth symbol,
I can change the locale to French.
And you will see that the text
you read now is "Choisissez un animal".
Okay, let's go back to English.
And we have much more strings to
define in our application,
so let's do that right now.
So you can either enter the string here,
like that, for instance.
So I need a new string.
Let's say the name will be "dog".
Okay, in the default language,
in English, it should display "Dog".
Okay, so that's one way of doing it.
And I can also do the same
using the translation editor.
So since I'm working with a dog,
let's write the French translation,
which is "chien".
And then I can add more strings
using the plus symbol here.
So let's add one for the cat.
In English, that will be "Cat".
Okay, and let's translate that to "chat".
Next, we add a "Pig"
in English;
it translates to "cochon" in French.
And the last one, last animal on our list
was horse, which in French is "cheval".
Okay, now we have all our
strings which are defined.
You can define strings, but
you can also define arrays of strings.
And that will come in handy later in our
application because we want to
display a list, and
a list can feed on an array of strings.
So let's define a string array.
So it's  a string-array,
I need to give it a name, so
let's call it 'animalsArray'.
animalsArray...
And then I need to define
the different items,
the different elements
that make up this array.
Remember that before, in the xml file,
to refer to something defined
in the strings.xml file,
I've used this construction @string/
and then the name of the key.
I'll do exactly the same in here.
I want to refer to the first element
of my array, this would be the dog,
I want to refer to this string.
So I just need to write @string/, and
then the name of the key of
the string here, which is "dog".
And let's do the same for
the three others animals.
So, I've got @string/cat.
I've got the item @string/pig.
And the last one,
the last item is @string/horse.
Okay.
Now I need to add a ListView
to my graphical interface.
So you find that in
the Containers section.
I'll put it right beneath the TextView.
And now I need to somehow
associate the array of strings with
the name of the different
animals in it to this ListView.
So in order to do that, I'm going to
edit the MainActivity.java file now.
So first I need to retrieve
a reference to the ListView.
So, I'll create a ListView object.
Let's call it listViewAnimals, and
then I'll use the findViewById method,
to retrieve this list.
Sorry, id.ListView.
And now, I need to create
an adaptor in order to feed my
ListView with the content of the string
array we defined in the strings.xml file.
So in order to do that I
create an ArrayAdapter.
This array adapter will contain
a string or a characters sequence.
Let's call it, adapterAnimals
for instance, ...animals.
And there is a special method to directly
create an array adaptor
from a resource such
as the string array that
we defined earlier.
So you can just choose 'create from
resource', then provide a context -this-, and
then the name of
the array you want to adapt.
So it's R.array.animalsArray.
And then you also need to provide the layout.
Android lets you specify different ways
of displaying each item in your list.
We'll use one of the default ones,
which is the "simple list item".
So android.R.layout.simple_list_item_1.
Okay.
So now that I have my adapter
I can fill my list with it.
So listViewAnimals.setAdapter.
adapterAnimals.
Okay, now let's look at
the results on the emulator.
That's my message here,
my TextView "Pick an animal",
then I've got the list of animals.
Now, let's change the interface to French.
So in order to do that,
I need to go into the Settings
and look for the Language & input section,
and here I need to change
language here to French.
Okay.
Now let's go back to our application,
Block02.
Okay, now it is displayed in French.
But here when I click
an item of the list, nothing happens,
because we didn't associate
any action with that.
So I'm going to show you how to do it.
Let's go back to the Java code.
One way of attaching action to a view
is to add a listener to this view.
That's what we're going to do here.
So I take the listViewAnimals, and
then I attach to it an OnItemClickListener.
So I can either define an object
which implements this interface in
a separate class or I can decide that
it's my main activity which implements
the OnItemClickListener,
like we did in the previous video.
Or I can just create
an anonymous object here.
That's what I'm going to do.
new OnItemClickListener, and
I just have to define
the OnClickItem method.
So we want to display a little
pop-up message when the user selects
an item in the list.
So let's first define the message
that we want to display to the user.
So there will be a string message,
but first it can reads
"Ok", for instance.
Now let's create the toast message.
I'm using the Toast class with
the makeToast static method.
I provide the context and then
the message to display which is message.
And the third parameter is for how long
I want the message to be displayed.
I want a short period.
And don't forget to call the show method,
otherwise nothing will happen.
Okay, let's check if this is working.
I'll run on the emulator again.
So now when I click on an item,
I've got the pop-up message
at the bottom of the screen.
But now, I would like the item picked to
appear in the text of the pop-up message.
So let's go back to the code
in order to add that.
So here, you see that when an item is
clicked and this method is called,
I'm given the position of the item
which was clicked by the user.
So I can use this index to
find the appropriate message,
appropriate string,
in our array of strings here.
So, the message will be "OK", plus
the item in adapterAnimals
at position, at the index position.
Item at position.
Okay, and also, I don't want to print
"OK" both in French and in English.
I want a different text here.
As before, I put my cursor here and
then I choose 'extract string resource'.
That will be our toastMessage,
this will be the key for our string.
And then let's edit the strings.xml file.
Open the translator, it's open already.
Okay, so the text message in
English will be "You picked...
such and such animal,
and in French that would
be "Vous avez choisi"
and followed by the name of the animal.
I put a space character here.
Okay, so let's try it out.
Okay, so when I click on "chat":
"Vous avez choisi chat"
And let's move to English.
When I click on dog: "You picked dog".
In this video,
you've learned how to provide your
application in multiple languages.
The first thing to do is to
separate the definition of your
message strings from the structure
of your application.
To do so, you define a set of keys and
values in the strings.xml file,
and then you can refer to the strings
that you've defined there,
either from your XML code using the
@string followed by the name of the key,
or in your Java code by using
R.string.the name of the key.
Then you can use a translations
editor on the strings.xml
file in order to first define
additional locale for your application,
and then, for each string that you've
defined, provide a translation.
In this video, you've also learned how
to provide a list of items to the user.
So for that you can use the ListView,
which is a container view.
And you will use
an ArrayAdapter to feed the list.
The ArrayAdapter will provide
both the content of the of the list by
taking it from an array,
it will also provide
the layout to be used to render
the different items on your list.
If you want to react to the selection
of an item of the list,
then you just need to add
an OnItemClickListener.